This is Deborah Beale, and I'm interviewing Mr.
Franklin Sequeira on the history of Texas
Engineering Experiment Station. The date is June
13, 1984. I've already given a little
introductory, but I'd like for you to tell me what
your background is. Okay. Well, my background has
basically been in new business ventures and
private industry.
I guess ever since I got out of college I've been
interested in business start-ups, and I've been
involved in a number of them under the umbrella of
major corporations. So I was manager of special
projects at North American Aviation in Columbus,
Ohio, where we did some work in setting up joint
ventures on commercial aircraft, even though
this was a military aircraft main venture. some
joint maintenance work with another aircraft
firm, or aircraft leasing firm, some
manufacturing ventures. And I left North
American Aviation in 1970, went to
Continental Can Company, as it was known as in
those days, as head of research and engineering
planning for the can company. And there we were
looking at new packaging ventures, I had about 30
people working for me, about half of them were
planners, the other half were administrators and
typewriters. From there I went to Can Company
headquarters as the Can Company director of new
business ventures and we set up some venture
capital operations. From that to the corporate
office in New York as corporate manager of
acquisitions and mergers.
I'm the corporate general manager of technology
and venture operations, and I'm finally vice
president and general manager of a startup. So
I've been involved in high-tech business startup
operations probably most of my business life. How
did Taze come to know about you? Oh, well, I
answered a Wall Street Journal ad. It sounded like
something that was just tailored to what I wanted
to do. After 12 years at Continental, they decided
that they were going to stick more to existing
businesses rather than creating new ones. And the
past five years have been very exciting. We were
involved in developing new high-energy density
batteries, new pharmaceuticals. We got an
anti-addictive drug that we were taking through
FDA approval. This would be allowing an alcoholic
to detoxify without trauma. It seemed to have
anti-heron and anti-nicotine properties. We had
a topical cure for herpes 2. At least that's the way
it was testing out in the laboratory. It hadn't
gone to human tests or anything. And the company I
started at Continental was called Continental
Power Systems Incorporated. And that was a
company that had licensed a new form of electrical
generator and variable speed AC motor. And we were
starting that up. got a new chairman of the board.
He said, well, we're going to make cans and punch
holes in the Gulf of Mexico. And I saw the ads and
said, wow. Looks better in Texas than it does in
Connecticut. Was this your first venture in
Texas? Well, we were running the pharmaceutical
venture down in Houston. We had a program office
down there, and if you're asking me is this the
first time I've lived in Texas, the answer is yes. I
had spent a lot of time in Texas, though, during the
five years of Continental when we were involved in
the pharmaceutical program. So you knew what the
atmosphere was like business-wise? Yeah, but of
course Houston's so different than the rest of the
state. It's probably, I would say that probably
Houston is more like Chicago than College Station
is like Houston. Oh, yeah. both in outlook and in
geography. So when you came, had the funding
already been established? No, the funding was not
established then. In fact, I came here, my first
day was September 13, 1982, and the Board of
Regents hadn't even approved invent at that time,
much to my surprise. I was going to say, that's a
pretty big risk. Well, I didn't realize I was
taking a risk until I got here.
So, were you involved in trying to help get them?
Well, no, Jean Armstrong, well, Skip handled the
presentations of the Board of Regents, and to the
extent that I gave Skip supporting material, yes,
I did help. But I'm really a neophyte in dealing
with the political, political things, as opposed
to company political things. Jane
Armstrong has my undying gratitude for having
handled it as well as she did. How did you plunge
into this? Because there was nothing in
existence. Well, yeah, but see, the thing is that
when I got here, I knew what I was going to do. In
fact,
do you know anything about the hiring procedure
they used here? Okay. It was a
procedure where, first of all, they ran the Adam
Wall Street Journal. They got 125 replies to it.
Then they winnowed it down to, I guess, about 10.
And they had those 10, or whatever number it was,
about 10, come down to the campus and
have some preliminary interviews. Then they
winnowed that down to three, and they set up a thing
that I call the shootout at the A&M Corral. In
industry, when you're being interviewed for a
job, it's kept fairly hush-hush, and you never
know who the other people are. Here, they want
everybody to stand up in front of God and everybody
and give their idea of how they're going to run and
vent. And
so they had invited the three finalists, to meet
with faculty, graduate students, honored guests
like Kosmetsky and Vick Arnold and those people,
and say, what did you do if you were running an
event? This was a new and strange... Did they give
you warning before? Oh yeah, they gave me adequate
warning. It was just that I'd never... Apparently
in academia this is fairly common, but it isn't in
business. And I'll never forget, I had I had been
visiting my daughter in Spain and I got, well first
of all I had a hard time sleeping my last night
because I was driving back from Cordoba to Madrid
and I stopped in Toledo and had a big dinner and lots
of coffee and I had trouble falling asleep. I
finally got a couple of hours of sleep and I woke up
at about six in the morning, and I had to drop to
Madrid. Well, six in the morning there is like, I
guess, one in the morning in New York. And drove to
Madrid, got on the plane, flew to New York, stood
around for three hours in customs, then spent
another two hours getting up to Connecticut. Got
home, sat and chatted with my wife for a while.
About midnight New York time. I said, now I've been
awake for 23 hours. The phone rings, and it's Bill
Mules. And he describes what's going to happen. I
said, Bill, you've got to be kidding me. But,
no, what I did then, after I thought about it for a
bit, I figured, well, you know, it's an honest
request. And while the procedure is different
than anything I've ever experienced before, I
certainly could respond to it. And what I did was
basically lay out a presentation, which I'm
almost still using today, explaining what Invent
does. And obviously there have been some changes,
but in principle it's been pretty constant. Could
you go through that again? I can give you a copy of
the presentation. Basically it says that we're
going to use faculty and students on a part-time
basis. We're going to organize using two faculty
members who will be associate directors. And they
will be responsible for coordinating with the
faculty and students so that the faculty, that
they're trying to get to work for us, view them as
faculty rather than staff. In fact, it was kind of
interesting. On my first interview, Skip Porter,
about 10 o'clock at night, asked me what I thought
it would cost to run an event. And I said, well, gee,
I really don't know. He said, well, we've got
another interview at 11 o'clock in the morning.
You and I. Be prepared to tell me at that time. I
thought, well, okay. And about 3 o'clock in the
morning, I woke up and I thought, well, all right,
you know, you can make some assumptions. You've
been doing this work for years, looking at new
ideas. And so I figured, well, all right. First of
all, we'll probably have two or three passes at
every idea before we decide whether to go with it or
not. Generally, you get somewhere between two and
five percent survival rate of the ideas,
depending on how good they are when they come in.
And so I worked out a process that would call for
repeated screenings with increasing
involvement, so that the first screening would
get rid of the trash Second screening would
acquire information. The third screening would
define what it is we had to do and what the cost would
be. And then the fourth thing that we did was to
actually implement the plan. I laid all that out,
figured a build-up curve, and came out within, oh,
I don't know, 10% of what Skip's estimate was on the
dollars. And I guess he sort of liked that, that he
had at least somebody that agreed in spirit with
this. That process was, again, something I'd been
following more or less unconsciously in the work I
was doing in Continental, because I saw thousands
of ideas there. And I figured, well, if we're going
to institutionalize this thing, i.e. have other
people involved with it, we have to give them some
idea of what the standards are and what the
procedures are and that sort of thing. And we're
still using, in fact, we've got, That procedure is
pretty well locked in now, so we refer to a Stage 1
project or Stage 2, Stage 3, Stage 4. And also,
we're coming fairly close on the percentages, so
that the original estimate I made two years ago as
to what would survive to go from Stage 1 to Stage 2 to
Stage 3 has proven pretty accurate. We make no
attempt to force it and say, well, you've got to
eliminate 90%. It's just, okay, get rid of the
garbage on the first pass. And it turns out it's
about 90%, give or take. And then the idea that we
would be active consultants, that we would fill in
the gaps in the entrepreneur's ability to put
together a business and supply the intellectual
resources. And then also the fact that we would
share in the rewards and share in the risks. So all
that was pretty much locked in two years ago. And it
turns out, you know, Jane Armstrong, in putting
together the philosophy, had come up with about
the same thing. The whole thing has been beautiful
in that there's been a great deal of agreement
between myself and Skip and Jane and Harry
Whitmore and Bill Muse and Bill Mobley and what
have you. It's everybody moving in the same
direction. And the support I've gotten from those
people has just been fabulous. Just fabulous. Are
Bill Muse and Mobley the vice? Bill Muse is vice
chancellor now, and he was one of the founders of
the event, one of the Theoreticians, I guess. Bill
Mobley is Dean of Business, and he and Bill are both
on the Invent Board of Advisors. We have what
amounts to a Board of Directors. The Board of
Directors consists of Bill Mews, Bill Mobley,
Jack Kilby, who is an outside consultant, and also
the fellow that invented the integrated circuit
that makes all computers possible today, Skip,
and Jane Armstrong. You said you wanted two
faculty to act as liaisons? Yeah. Who are those?
Don Russell from electrical engineering and Ella
Van Fleet from business. And has that helped out
from what you see in terms of establishing
relationships? Oh, that's the only way to do it.
First of all, they know all the people well, and
they also have an internal evaluation of these
folks. And it would be impossible for me to do the
job coming in from the outside, not knowing
anybody. Just a learning curve would take 10
years. And they've already experienced all that,
and they're working with people that are in their
field. So they've got a real close-up evaluation.
And it's worked out quite well. In terms of getting
the people with the ideas and the new inventions
in, how did you go about doing that? Well, again,
I've been doing this for about 12 years, and my
experience has been, and it's been proven again
here, getting the people in is not a problem. It's
keeping the door closed enough so they don't get
overwhelmed by it. As soon as the word gets around,
you're deluged. And we've had a great deal of
publicity around the state, and every time that an
article comes out in some local paper or there's a
TV spot or something, it's like a dam break. So
getting ideas in is not a problem. Getting good
ideas is a problem. But that's true no matter where
you are. First of all, inventors are very
persistent people. Secondly, there are a great
deal, a great number of people out there that fancy
themselves as being inventors. They're really
conceptualists. They get an idea and they think
that's the end of it. Now somebody should write
them a check and take care of it. And Edison said
that invention is 5% inspiration and 95%
perspiration. Well, we provide the perspiration
here. However, having a good idea isn't enough.
You've got to want to be the one that
commercializes it. And there are very few ideas
that we would consider really making a strong
investment in that that don't include the active
participation of the inventor, i.e. the inventor
wants to start a business. And he wants to start the
business with this product. And he's got some
ideas for other products, and he's qualified for
the business. And if we can find that, then we get
much more excited about even a mediocre product
idea than we do about a superb product idea where
the guy walks in and says, yeah, OK, now you take
care of it. Because one of the most important
ingredients of any business success is a thing
called the champion. And somewhere you have to
have a champion. This is a guy whose entire life is
dedicated to making this thing a success. You
can't find champions on staff unless somebody
suddenly metamorphizes into it. And
occasionally it does happen, but very
infrequently. Occasionally you'll have
somebody walk in from outside that says, hey,
look, I run this business and that business on
board, and I want to start a new one. If you have
anything, get in touch. That happens
occasionally.
But the champion, you know, it's a big world out
there. There are a lot of forces that work to keep it
in the status quo thing. When you come in with
something new, you're changing the status quo.
And this means that you've got to have somebody
that is willing to dedicate a very, very
significant portion of their waking hours, their
energies, and their attention. And that's what
we'd like to see. And we do have people like that.
The people with the combination? Yeah, we do have
people like that. Not on our staff, but people
coming in. And those are the ones that really turn
us on. Now, do you work to try and get the people who
come in on the street and say, I started this
business, this business, do you try and get them
together with the others that don't? Where it's
appropriate, we will, yeah.
And in fact, we just sent a team up to Dallas with
some concepts looking for manufacturers that
might be interested in picking up new products. So
we sort of took the things that we felt were not
significant enough to create a business of their
own around. but where somebody that's in a light
business might be interested in licensing it. But
this usually doesn't work very well. This was sort
of a last gasp before discarding the things. And we
find that we get things that are, yeah, they're
good ideas. And if somebody's in that business,
then maybe they can just pop it in as another
product and pay the inventor $100 or something
like that. It might help their business, and it
might stimulate some economic activity, which is
what we're supposed to be doing.
And those things that are, we call them trivial, if
we can package those and find somebody that wants a
few new products. And they're usually anomaly
items of one sort or another. Now, we do have one. In
fact, it was the first business that we started.
It's a board game called Aggie Days. And it's sort
of a monopoly game. Not quite, but it uses squares
and you move things. And all the squares, well, I
don't know if it's in the stores yet, are related to
Texas A&M. And we see the market as being the
students, but more likely the parents of students
and the former students. Yeah, somebody to give it
to the kids for Christmas and that sort of thing.
And then the former students who want a little trip
and nostalgia. This was brought to us by a student,
a guy named John Ward. And John has already started
several businesses. He's got a flying school. And
he had developed a knee pad for aviators for
keeping notes. And he sold some 2,000 of those. And
we thought the board game had some very
interesting aspects to it, as did John Ward
himself. John is a real driver. And we felt that,
number one, he probably was going to go ahead and do
the business whether we were involved or not. So
he'd be better off if we were involved. Secondly,
where he would run out of steam, we thought, was in
picking up what he learned and then proliferating
it to other campuses. And so we're putting
together a strategy for him, watching what's
happening here and then identifying target
campuses for the next move and a methodology or
handling it on other campuses. So like the UT board
game? Yeah, right. And of course, this would be
probably most successful on those campuses with a
high degree of nostalgia. Somehow, I think the
Chicago campus of the University of Illinois
would not attract too many old alums. But OU and UT?
Yeah, yeah. And certainly, if it's not a success
here, there's no chance it's going to be a success
any place. But John was up and running about a month
ago, and he, one of the things he was going to have
was to sell advertising space on the game board,
and apparently he's already got $6,000 in
advertising revenues out of some of the local
businesses. And these are all nostalgia type
places around here, so. We looked to that one to be a
small, but a successful business. And then the
second one, that I consider done, it's actually
moving into its final stages of financing now, is a
local businessman who had been producing some
power packs for photo flash units. Yeah, and he
came to us and asked for some help, so we're giving
it to him. Now he's, as I say, in the final stages of
signing the contract for the financing, and he'll
be off and running. did some in-depth market
surveys for them, and they got some strategies,
and helped them negotiate with the sources of
capital so they wouldn't take too much of the
business away from them. I look to that one as being
a success too. Again, this is connected to a guy
that's already in business, starting a new
business, and with a great deal of drive and
creativity. So those are the ones that will have
the highest probability of success. How does
this, being in a public university, how does it
differ from organizations that do the same type of
thing privately? Well, I think first of all, we're
not in it for the money. We do take a piece of the
action, and this means that if the business is an
outstanding success, we're making an
outstanding amount of money in our investment. We
don't take any money upfront though, nor do we take
any debt of any sort. So, the things that do it,
first of all, there's quote, invention marketing
companies.
My experience in viewing their reports has been
that they use good paper and they have maybe one or
two pages that are germane to that particular
product, and a lot of boilerplate. And they charge
$1,500 to $1,800 for that. They usually propose
then that they will, for another $3,000 or $4,000,
they will expose this invention to 500
manufacturers and that sort of thing. Generally,
the people have, that have used those services has
come to us after the first report, and they're very
dissatisfied with what they spent their money on.
There are commercial venture capital companies,
but we get involved before a venture capital
company would be interested. In fact, our output
is something that the venture capital company
would need in order to decide whether or not to make
an investment. Also, we don't take the same
proportion of the business that the venture
capital company would demand. We're also able to
take things that are smaller and that never will be
astoundingly large, because our main goal is the
creation of businesses, not making a lot of money
for our investors. So we take higher risk things.
We take things that probably would not have
another avenue.
And we take things that probably will never be very
large, or that can never be very large, simply
because the market may not be all that big. But we'd
like to see something that, if we had a rule of
thumb, we'd say, well, maybe in five years they'll
do $5 million in sales. Venture capital companies
would like to see them do $100 million in five
years. And they'll screen out anything that
doesn't have that potential, at least, realizing
that the potential is very seldom met, and that's
where their risk comes in. But venture capital
companies are in it for the buck, as are their
investors, and they tend to
place more of their money as growth capital for
businesses that are always running. So you may
have a company that is now in the upswing of its
growth curve, and needs some money to finance its
growth. It's run out of bankable loans and isn't
quite positioned yet to sell its stock publicly.
So venture capitalists will help out there. And
that's where the venture capitalists are making a
lot of their investments. We don't even get
involved with that. So that's, I guess, how we
differ. Also, we have the faculty available to us
But there are other companies, other venture
capital companies that use nearby universities
as sources of talent, and they hire the professors
on a consultant basis. And they may actually have
an easier job than we do, because we can't pay a
professor to work overtime for us, because we've
got state funds. He's already working 100% for the
state, so he can't have him working 110% for the
state. And what we do... is
provide release time for teaching. So, we say,
well, fine, we'll pay a third of your salary and you
only have to teach two-thirds of the classes.
Generally, that last third doesn't really
require that much more work because he's teaching
the same class a third time, that's all. And so, our
providing a third of his salary in exchange for him
working for us thirteen hours a week isn't all that
attractive, and so we have some problems getting
faculty members there. What about publications?
And of course, that's a big problem. That's a big
problem. So far, there's been one publication
that has come out of people working for a guy.
What was it? It had to do with industrial
marketing, a project we're working on with a water
cleanup
This will be running in a magazine called
Industrial Marketing this summer by Al Bush and
George Lucas.
But generally, we don't do the kind of work that you
could consider research. We're trying to build
something and make it work. We're not trying to
discover any new principles.
The market research that we do is, I think, very
interesting to the participants. I know they're
having a ball because they're getting out in the
real world and seeing how it is.
I think that from that standpoint, they're
learning an awful lot, but again, that doesn't
come to a publication. I talked to Pustay in the
business, and he said that part of the way they're
trying to handle it is getting more towards a
graduate program. Yeah, well, they would invent a
couple of other projects they're having trouble
with that aren't what he calls a win-win situation
for them. Yeah. And have you found a good record
with using graduate students? Yeah. In fact, this
game business was done entirely by graduate
students, and it amazed me because After they had
done the first two phases of evaluation, they
said, do you want to go ahead with it? I said, sure,
go ahead, do phase three, which is lay out the plan,
tell me what you're going to do. Well, what they did
was go ahead and did it. And the next time they
touched base with me, the business plan had been
completed, and the business was ready to get
started. And I thought, you know, there should be
more people like that here. But we're using
more graduate student time now than faculty time.
And ideally... I think we should fall back to a
position where the faculty provides supervision
and advice and doesn't do any of the actual work.
Trouble is that, again, it's simply a matter of
years and presumably the faculty has more
experience than the graduate students and
they're able to interpret better what they're
hearing than the graduate students. Graduate
students will take things And the faculty
members, particularly as they've been out in
business, have seen a couple of things like this
before, and they weren't quite what they seemed to
be. So they can put some English on what they're
hearing.
I haven't talked to
anyone in the engineering department about the
event. Are you having similar problems with
engineering in terms of the publication? I think
it's a greater problem with engineering than with
business.
They're testing for you, essentially, right?
Well, no, they're analyzing neurons. We've got a
rather heavy development program in one plastic
device, and we've got a faculty member working
half-time all year round on that particular
project. But I would say that we have more problems
in engineering, simply because in engineering,
most engineers can sell all their available
consulting time. And if they're going to take time
out from publications and teaching, they can get
paid more, and it's extra money in their pocket, by
just picking up a consulting contract and working
on that. And they get in six days what we'll pay them
in the semester for working part-time for us. Are
these problems things that you realize you would
run up against? No, no. Because it's a totally
different world. That part of it, yeah. I would say
to some extent, too, I'm maybe a little surprised
by how self-centered some of the faculty appears
to be at times. And maybe I shouldn't be. Somehow I
thought that in an educational institution that
there would be a maybe more charity, and I find out
it's maybe the same or maybe less than you find it in
business. But everybody's the same? Well, I guess
that's what it amounts to, right. Who do you deal
with in the university system? Do you deal with
anyone outside of teams? Well, the College of
Business, yeah, and rather extensively there. We
do have some dealings with the School of Medicine.
We have initiated some dealings with UT
Arlington, HARC, and we're trying to set up a
project at UT Austin. And since we are a state
organization,
perfectly justified in doing that. In fact, it's
recommended that we do. Now, this is one
particular project you're working on, or a
totally separate, affiliated in-vent project?
Well, it would be an individual project that would
be worked on there rather than here, mainly
because the inventor's in Austin, and UT Austin
has some people that are particularly talented in
this particular field. and it would just make a
great deal of sense to do it out there. And that's in
the process of it, so.
Now, were you involved at all in the setting up of
the UTR and the T-Center, or did you take advantage
of most of the center? You're talking about the
Small Business Development Company Center,
SBDC, Small Business Development Center. To the
extent that I met with John Rouse up there and told
him what we were doing here, and
had some preliminary discussions with some of his
people, offered our services. Occasionally he
sends somebody down here to talk to us, and he
thinks that they need our help more than his, and
that sort of thing. And I send people up there when I
think that they need his help more than ours. So
from that standpoint, I was not directly involved
in setting it up. Harry Whitmore, I guess, had
handled that. Harry had skipped it in there. to the
extent that there was a transfer of information,
yeah, it wasn't local. Could he deal with
inside the system? Inside the A&M system? Yeah.
All right. Inside the A&M system, again, it's
College of Business, TEAS, any other college dean
that we need. Bill
Mews, Mark Money, I
guess indirectly through Perry Atkinson.
I've had some dealings with agriculture with the
Ag Experiment Station.
Other than that, no. It's mostly business and
engineering. Outside, too, by the way, the
sources of capital, venture capitalists, that
sort of commercial world. You do try and get them
together with the capital. Yeah, when it's
advisable. Once you've gotten past that stage.
Yeah, right now, we don't have anything big enough
to go to venture capital with. We've used local
financing on that. But when you get up toward the
million mark, and you really get your act put
together, then you can go and watch a cat bus. But
you have helped them get together with local
planners? Yeah. What do you do as, you know, you've
got whole organizations that I put, do you as
director of this, of this invent, what stages do
you get into? I don't know, inspire a lead, put out
fires. I see my role as being the interface with the
outside. and a policy role, and a supervisory role
over procedures, and particularly the stage four
programs. And for instance, right now I'm missing
our Wednesday morning staff meeting, which is not
a staff meeting per se, but it's a stage four review
meeting. Now, what we do is when a program gets to
this implementation stage where we're actually
doing product development and actually running
the business part and actually sending out market
researchers, we appoint a faculty member as team
leader. And he basically puts together a little
company. He's got some marketing people, and he's
got some finance people, and he's got some
engineering people. He's got some strategy
people. He may play several of these roles
himself. But whatever he needs, we try to get for
him in the way of talent. It's his job, then, to try
to keep the thing on track, try to hit the schedule
objectives, milestones, and bring the program
in. So once a week, we spend a half hour per program
in which he reports what's going on, what his
problems are, what help he needs. And this meeting
is just the team leader, the two associate
directors, and myself. And we've set up a
procedure where when the half hour is up, that's
the end of that meter. If we have to meet more on
that, we reschedule that particular month. This
way, you don't wind up with some projects being
cheated and others getting too much attention.
I meet with the inventors frequently. And I like to
get involved myself with them. Oh, particularly
ones in which I feel particularly competent.
Power generation, thermodynamics, things that I
may have been involved in in the past. In industry,
I think I'm going to bring some insight in on these
things. So I like to get my hands dirty on those.
But to come up with a job description, that's
difficult. I think it's difficult in the whole
organization. Yeah, it really is. I think if you
can't, that's why they have such nice titles. You
know, you're vice president of sales. Everybody
knows what that is, so you don't have to explain it
to them. But I guess, you know, to the extent that
I'm the president of the company here, reporting
to my board of directors, and fairly autonomous.
So from that standpoint, it's very satisfying.
And I've been satisfied with the results. A little
anxious that they We stopped popping things out
faster, but it just took longer to get them through
the pipeline than I thought they would. In terms of
flexibility, are you as flexible
here as you were in the private sector? Yes and no. I
think that,
well, let's put it this way. It's harder to do
things. You don't have as much money available.
Because people are locked into semester
schedules that are scheduled a year and a half in
advance, they're not always available. And in a
company, it was always possible to get ahold of
somebody for some length of time.
I remember talking to one of my former Continental
Group associates. And he said, what kind of
funding do you have for this operation? I said,
well, we've got a million dollars for the
biennium. So that's a half million dollars a year.
They said, Frank, that used to be your expense
account.
So from the standpoint of money, in the standpoint
of being able to go outside and get help, we try very
hard to use the help internally. As a result, it
slows things down. Recently, we did have to go
outside. And gee, just the procedures of getting
an outside consultant, I get with the governor,
they're okay.
Amazing. I guess approval levels, yeah, there's
also approval. We had a letter come through here
the other day requesting
permission for, well, AINVENT was going to fund
the presentation of a paper in France, and this was
because of some work that had been done.
it turned out that it looked like it required 19
approvals. You know, it started out with the guy
requesting it, went through his assistant
department head, his department head, went
through his assistant dean, his dean, came over to
T's, went through Skip, went through me, then was
going to head on up through Vanderveer and Hanson,
and ultimately, I don't know, through two state
senators and the governor or something. I
couldn't believe it.
Do you... Well,
again, I believe that any time that you can inject
the outside world into the university
environment, that you're doing everybody a
favor. To
some extent, I guess I was a little bit taken aback
the first time I started working with the faculty,
and it sort of reminded me of being out in business
and having a brand new, eager, intelligent,
hardworking MBA who is just chock full of theory,
and doesn't even know who to call to get the right
answer to something. I think that the standpoint
that they're able to say, oh, yeah, well, I talked
to 50 guys in the oil business
and I think we ought to go back and hit this guy and
that guy and this guy because they seem to know more
about it. That sort of thing I think is useful. I
think we're doing the university a fantastic
service in what we're doing with the graduate
students. We've got an MBA candidate now, first
year MBA candidate, that's going to start a
business. Not of her own, but she's doing a foreign
event, getting something else started here. And I
think that's just a marvelous experience. And
what it's doing is showing them that it's not an
impossibly difficult thing to do, and it's
something they can handle. And we use graduate
students on two bases. is the research assistant
program, we just hire them. And the other is the
intern program. And the intern program is for
second year MBA students with an engineering
undergraduate degree. And we give them three
hours of credit in exchange for 10 hours a week. On
the other hand, we will not make the same work
demands that we would make of a research
assistant. And we leave them pretty much set their
own program, follow their own nose, and to try to
absorb as much as possible about what we're doing
and how we do it and how people react and that sort of
thing.
Also, they've got a right to sit in on anything they
want to. They don't have to necessarily be
assigned to it. I'd go on a trip and investigate
another project, and we'd be fine. It's all part of
the deal. That's for credit towards their degree.
Yeah. So from that standpoint, I think that we're
benefiting the university. I think eventually
we'll do with money.
Have you... Oh, there's another thing, too. A lot
of things that, again, no matter how good an
invention is, somebody's got to want to push it.
and wear that force here. Now I have been
disappointed in the number, a small number of
university inventions we've seen. Most of our
inventions come from outside or coming from
students. And faculty members for some reason are
not bringing them forward.
Possibly. Possibly. I think also that Some of them
are so esoteric that there may not be any
commercial application. If
you started a business and sold the world market,
you'd sell three windows. That would be it. At a
high price point.
Yeah. Have you consciously made any changes in the
direction that is going? Well,
yeah, I think we sort of came full circle on the
relative roles of graduate students and faculty.
I originally started out thinking that the MBA
candidates were going to be the most useful
workers, mainly because they were aimed toward
the commercial world and their objectives would
be the same as inventors.